.TH "vcpufreq" "1" "2.2.0" "José J. Rodríguez" ""
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
\fBvcpufreq\fR \- A graphical CPU frequency selector written in Gambas
.SH "SYNTAX (full)"
.LP 
gbx \-x /usr/bin/vcpufreq.gambas

.SH "SYNTAX (short)"
.LP 
vcpufreq.gambas

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
\fBvcpufreq\fR is a simple, lightweight, but very complete graphical frontend to the Linux kernel's CPU frequency scaling subsystem (CPUfreq). This subsystem was designed to allow on\-the\-fly CPU frequency selection, without requiring a reboot.
.br 

The CPUfreq subsystem is available by default in the Linux 2.6.x series kernels. The only way to use CPUfreq on 2.4.x kernels is to obtain a backport of the code.
.br 

\fBvcpufreq\fR is written entirely using Benoît Minisini's Gambas programming language, thus it requires the Gambas Runtime environment to function. It was created with the VectorLinux GNU/Linux distribution in mind, however it will function with any other distribution as long as the necessary dependencies are installed.
.br 

\fBvcpufreq\fR can be broken down into two essential components: \fIvcpufreq\fR and \fIvcpufreq\-loader\fR.
\fIvcpufreq\fR provides the actual graphical interface that allows a user to interact with the CPUfreq subsystem, while \fIvcpufreq\-loader\fR is a command\-line tool designed primarily to load (and set) the saved CPUfreq configuration at boot time.

\fBvcpufreq\fR is NOT an overclocking tool!

.SH "USING VCPUFREQ"
.LP 
\fBvcpufreq\fR has a very straight\-forward and easy to understand layout.
.br 

If you attempt to run \fBvcpufreq\fR as a regular user, it will run itself with kdesu or gksu if available.
.br 

Please make sure that the Gambas interpreter (\fIgbx\fR) is in your path. On most systems with a properly installed Gambas runtime, there is no need to use the full command\-line, simply running "vcpufreq.gambas" should call the Gambas runtime interpreter. The path to \fBvcpufreq\fR  may also vary, depending on where your distribution places user\-accessable binaries, in Vector Linux, it defaults to /usr/bin/.

Once you start \fBvcpufreq\fR, you will be presented with a simple and clean interface, supported by tooltips, with logically organized items regarding your processor's frequency scaling options and information.


\fBvcpufreq's\fR interface explained:

	\fB\- cpufreq driver:\fR this text\-box will show which kernel module is being used to support your processor's scaling functions. If your processor does not support frequency scaling, \fI"UNAVAILABLE"\fR will be displayed.

	\fB\- CPUs:\fR the number of CPUs, CPU cores or virtual CPU threads (hyperthreading) will be displayed here.

	\fB\- cpufreq governor:\fR displays the type of governor being used to manage your processor's frequency. By default, the governor is set to \fI"userspace"\fR mode. You may change the governor mode to one of your liking using the combobox to the right of the \fIcpufreq governor\fR textbox.

	\fB\- CPU frequency:\fR the frequency at which your processor is currently functioning is displayed here. If you wish to change your CPU's frequency, simply click on the combo\-box to the right of this field and select one of the available frequencies from the drop\-down menu that appears. The highest speed you processor supports (or the speed currently set in your BIOS) is selected by default.

	\fB\- Max. CPU freq.:\fR every CPU has a maximum frequency at which it can function, and that information will be displayed here.

	\fB\- Min. CPU freq.:\fR your processor also has a minimum speed at which it can work, and that value will be shown here. The value displayed in this field is also the lowest frequency you will be able to select from \fBCPU frequency\fR combo\-box.

	\fB\- Max. cpufreq limit:\fR in this field, you will be given information about which is the highest selectable frequency. You may change the maximum selectable frequency at which your CPU functions using the combobox to the right of this field. You will not be able to set your processor's maximum frequency to any value higher than what it supports.

	\fB\- Min. cpufreq limit:\fR change your processor's minimum selectable frequency to a value within the list of available frequencies supported by your CPU.

	\fB\- Save on exit:\fR select this option to save the adjustments you made with \fBvcpufreq\fR when you exit. The information will be saved to \fI/etc/vcpufreq.conf\fR.

	\fB\- Load on boot:\fR check this box if you wish \fBvcpufreq\-loader\fR to load the last saved parameters automaticaly when you boot your computer.

	\fB\- Auto\-refresh rate:\fR the rate at which the information is refreshed in the textboxes is set here. By default, the \fI"manual"\fR option is selected. You may change the refresh rate from one second to five minutes. If you leave \fI"manual"\fR enabled, you must click on the \fIRefresh\fR button to refresh the information. Auto\-refresh is mostly useful for the dynamic frequency governors, such as "ondemand" and "conservative".

	\fB\- Exit:\fR this one is self\-explanatory ;)

.SH "DEPENDENCIES"
.LP 
\fBvcpufreq\fR requires the following to function:

	\- A CPU with dynamic frequency scalability

	\- CPUfreq kernel subsystem

	\- Loaded CPUfreq modules appropriate for your CPU

	\- QT version 3.3 or above (not QT4 yet)

	\- Gambas Runtime

.SH "RESOURCES"
.LP 
Below is an assortment of links and info that may be useful:

	\- \fBvcpufreq\fR project page: http://code.google.com/p/vcpufreq/

	\- CPUfreq 2.4.x backport: ftp://ftp.linux.org.uk/pub/linux/cpufreq/

	\- QT graphical toolkit: http://www.trolltech.com/

	\- Gambas project page: http://gambas.sourceforge.net/

	\- VectorLinux homepage: http://www.vectorlinux.com/

	\- VectorLinux support forum: http://www.vectorlinux.com/forum2/

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
\fBvcpufreq:\fR José J. Rodríguez (Joe1962) <joe1962@users.berlios.de>

\fBmanual page:\fR Eugéne Suter (easuter) <easuter@gmail.com>
